# 1 - Article Overview

Not a lot of in-depth information from a single voice has been written about Backbone itself. We have varying degrees of information about how Backbone can be implemented to create an application. We have lots of opinions about how it does or does not fit into the Model/View/Whatever world. We have more than enough "to-do" demo applications, which can bring a layer of value when learning about application design. However, what I think is lacking are details about Backbone itself and what the actual code is doing. The documentation offers some degree of this as well as the annotated source, but I think more information is needed. Or, at the very least, a different voice documenting Backbone's function and parts.

In Part 1 and Part 2 of Backbone.js Deconstructed, we are going to examine the function of the Backbone Library at the code level.

Specifically, in Part 1 we will identify some helpful (dare I say 'required'?) prerequisites that make learning Backbone a rewarding endeavor. Then we will cover some critical details about Single Page Applications (SPAs) that are needed before one can truly understand the purpose and parts of Backbone. After we have a mental foundation for SPAs, we will dive into the code by systematically breaking down the details around Backbone.Events, creating Backbone Objects, the Backbone.Router() and Backbone.History(), and lastly, Backbone utilities. In Part 2 of Backbone.js Deconstructed, we will systematically uncover the purpose and functionality provided by Backbone.Model, Backbone.View, and Backbone.Collection.

Now, for the part where I you tell you what you won't find in these two articles. You won't find in-depth information about MVC, MVVM, MVP, or MV-Whatever patterns. I purposefully have sidestepped any in-depth discussion about these patterns because I believe that Backbone is such a simple library that if you learn the function of the code, the implementation part will be obvious and you will remain free to adapt Backbone to your own domain.

You also won’t find an application being built in this article. This is commonly the method of teaching Backbone to newcomers and plenty of approaches in this fashion are available. Additionally, I am not writing this article to produce yet another tutorial that briefly talks about Models and Views.

In this article, we are breaking down the major parts of Backbone and examining the function of each part at the code level. Expect to get intimate with each part of Backbone.